---
date: 2025-05-23 12:00:00+08:00
categories:
- Exegesis
title: 1 Timothy 3:15
type: post
author: DanAgaf
tags:
  - Sola Scriptura
  - Roman Catholicism
---

> 1 Timothy 3:15 - LSB
>
> <sup> 15 </sup>but in case I am delayed, <i>I write </i>so that you will know how one ought to conduct himself in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth.
 %% #1Timothy #1Timothy3 %%

## Exegesis

### A - but in case I am delayed,

The reason for writing the succeeding words

### B - I write so that you will know how one ought to conduct himself

Talking about conduct — how one is to acts

### C - in the household of God,

The local church is in view here, not the universal church.

This is where you have the elders, the deacons, the supper, baptism, discipline, singing of hymns and spiritual songs (Eph. 5:19-21), worship, instruction of the word.

### D - which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth.

With the aforementioned in mind, what is then the function of the local church in being the pillar and support of the truth? The function of the local church is to hold up the truth revealed in Scripture — to *live* the truth, is given birth *by* the truth, not that it defines the truth itself. It does not supplant the truth. The truth is not dependent upon it for definition. The bride of Christ hears the voice of Christ, not the other way around.

And what is at the very center of what is to be presented, preached, and taught? But that which is Theopneustos — Holy Scripture.