---
date: 2025-05-26 12:00:00+08:00
categories:
- 5 Solas
title: Sola Fide
type: post
author: DanAgaf
tags:
- Solas
- Sola Fide
image:
    path: assets/img/does-god-really-save-us-by-faith-alone.jpg
---

Sola fide (“by faith alone”). Faith alone, not our works or faith combined with works, is the instrument by which the sinner is justified from the guilt of all sin and counted righteous by God (Gal. 2:16). Evangelical theology establishes the conviction that no amount of sincere intention, love, good deeds, or acts of devotion can atone for our sins and make us righteous before God. “Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness” (Rom. 4:4–5).

<u>Evangelical theology teaches us that faith is like a hand, not a hand by which we bring our merit and worthiness to God, but an empty hand by which we receive and take hold of Jesus Christ as our only atonement and our righteousness.</u> What is your confidence before the throne of God? Is it some combination of your faith, love, and good works, or do you stand before God by faith in Christ alone? Do you have a true, living faith that trusts, rests, and relies upon Christ, and by union with him produces a life of good works? We are justified by faith alone, but not by a faith that is alone, for justifying faith unites us to Christ in a living, loving, lasting relationship.

## Verses in Support

> Galatians 2:16 - LSB
>
> <sup> 16 </sup>nevertheless knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the Law but through faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the Law; since by the works of the Law no flesh will be justified.
 

> John 1:12 - LSB
>
> <sup> 12 </sup>But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, <i>even </i>to those who believe in His name,
 
 
> Acts 15:11 - LSB
>
> <sup> 11 </sup>But we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, in the same way as they also are.”


> Romans 3:22-24 - LSB
>
> <sup> 22 </sup>even <i>the </i>righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe; for there is no distinction;
> <sup> 23 </sup>for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
> <sup> 24 </sup>being justified as a gift by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus;

> Romans 4:4-8 - LSB
>
> <sup> 4 </sup>Now to the one who works, his wage is not counted according to grace, but according to what is due.
> <sup> 5 </sup>But to the one who does not work, but believes upon Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness,
> <sup> 6 </sup>just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God counts righteousness apart from works:
> <sup> 7 </sup>“Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven,<br/>And whose sins have been covered.<br/>
> <sup> 8 </sup>Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account.”


> Romans 7:24-25 - LSB
>
> <sup> 24 </sup>Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from the body of this death?
> <sup> 25 </sup>Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, on the one hand I myself with my mind am serving the law of God, but on the other, with my flesh the law of sin.


> Romans 8:12 - LSB
>
> <sup> 12 </sup>So then, brothers, we are under obligation, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh—


> Galatians 3:6-9 - LSB
>
> <sup> 6 </sup>Just as Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness,
> <sup> 7 </sup>so know that those who are of faith, those are sons of Abraham.
> <sup> 8 </sup>And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, proclaimed the gospel beforehand to Abraham, <i>saying</i>, “All the nations will be blessed in you.”
> <sup> 9 </sup>So then those who are of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer.

> Ephesians 2:8-10 - LSB
>
> <sup> 8 </sup>For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves, <i>it is </i>the gift of God;
> <sup> 9 </sup>not of works, so that no one may boast.
> <sup> 10 </sup>For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them.


## Common Objections

### The Parable of the Sheep and Goats

[What is the meaning of this parable?](/posts/parable-of-the-sheep-and-goats/)

## Further Reading:

- [Matthew 25:31-46 and justification by faith alone \| The Puritan Board](https://puritanboard.com/threads/matthew-25-31-46-and-justification-by-faith-alone.78423/)